Repurposing `guides/debugging.md` page (#536)
withastro/docs: src/pages/en/guides/debugging.md

### Expected a default export

This error is the result of the way importing your UI component works in Astro. If your component is invalid or not working properly, this error will be thrown when trying to render it or importing it.

**Solution** Try looking for errors in your component and make sure it's working correctly. Consider opening an Astro starter template from [astro.new](https://astro.new) and troubleshooting just your component in a minimal Astro project. 

## Common "Gotchas" in Astro

### My component is not rendering

First, check to see that you have **imported the component** in your [`.astro` component script](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/#the-component-script) or [`.md` frontmatter](/en/guides/markdown-content/#using-components-in-markdown).

If it's not the problem:

- Is your import linking to the wrong place ? (Check your import path)

- Does your import have the same name as the imported component? (Check your component name and [following the `.astro` syntax](/en/comparing-astro-vs-other-tools/#astro-vs-jsx))

- Have you included the extension in the import? (Check that your imported file contains an extension, e.g. `.astro`, `.md`, `.jsx`, `.vue`)

> ### My component is not working:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### My component is not working
```

**Solution**: If you have added any atributes to your `<script>` tag, you must also add the `type="module"` attribute to be able to use import statements.

**Status**: Expected Astro behavior, as intended.

💡 Not sure that this is your problem? Check to see if anyone else has reported [this issue](https://github.com/withastro/astro/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+Cannot+use+import+statement)!

### Unable to render Component

This is indicates an error in a component you have imported and are using in your Astro template. 

**Solution**: Check the appropriate documentation for your [Astro](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/) or [UI framework](/en/core-concepts/framework-components/) component. Consider opening an Astro starter template from [astro.new](https://astro.new) and troubleshooting just your component in a minimal Astro project. 

> This can also be caused by attempting to access the `window` or `document` object at render time. 
 

> By default, Astro will render your component outside of the browser (except for the `client:only` directive). 

Reviewer 2: I think we could use more specific language than "outside of the browser" here.

```suggestion
By default, Astro will render your component [isomorphically](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isomorphic_JavaScript), meaning it runs on the server where the browser runtime is not available (unless using the `client:only` directive). 
```

Reviewer 3: I think this is a good suggestion. At first I worried about “isomorphically” being a scary technical term, but it is commonly used and explaining it immediately is a great way to handle that.

Maybe for clarity we could separate out the parenthetical and link to the directives docs:

```suggestion
By default, Astro will render your component [isomorphically](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isomorphic_JavaScript), meaning it runs on the server where the browser runtime is not available. You can disable this pre-render step using [the `client:only` directive](/en/reference/directives-reference/#clientonly).
```

**Solution**: Try looking for errors in any component you are importing and rendering, and make sure it's working correctly. Consider opening an Astro starter template from [astro.new](https://astro.new) and troubleshooting just your component in a minimal Astro project. 

**Status**: Expected Astro behavior, as intended.

## Common "Gotchas" in Astro

### My component is not rendering

First, check to see that you have **imported the component** in your [`.astro` component script](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/#the-component-script) or [`.md` frontmatter](/en/guides/markdown-content/#using-components-in-markdown).

Then check your import statement:

- Is your import linking to the wrong place? (Check your import path.)

- Does your import have the same name as the imported component? (Check your component name and that it [follows the `.astro` syntax](/en/comparing-astro-vs-other-tools/#astro-vs-jsx).)

- Have you included the extension in the import? (Check that your imported file contains an extension. e.g. `.astro`, `.md`, `.jsx`, `.vue`)

> ### My component is not working

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### My component renders on the page, but is not responding to user interaction
```

If your component is rendering (see above) but is not interactive, then you may be missing a [`client:*` directive](/en/reference/directives-reference/#client-directives) to hydrate your component.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

By default, a [UI Framework component is not hydrated in the client](/en/core-concepts/framework-components//#hydrating-interactive-components). If no client:* directive is provided, its HTML is rendered onto the page without JavaScript.

Note: [Astro components](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/) are HTML-only templating components with no client-side runtime. But, you can use a <script> tag in your Astro component template to send JavaScript to the browser that executes in the global scope.

```

Reviewer: This is copied from other sections, so it is duplicate content. BUT, it's maybe important enough to also have here because it's one of the MAIN THINGS people need to know? 

I feel like people used to Astro would see the one-liner, and "Duh, of course." BUT to make it friendlier to newer Astronauts, I think this might be a kind service to have these extra sound bites here.

### Cannot find package 'X'

See [Astro's integration guide](/en/guides/integrations-guide/) for instructions on adding framework renderers, CSS tools and other packages to Astro.

You may need to install peer dependencies for some integrations. If you see a “missing peer dependencies” warning, you can follow the instructions for  [handling dependencies](/en/guides/integrations-guide/#handling-integration-dependencies).

### `Astro.glob()`'s "No matches found"

When using `Astro.glob()` to import files, be sure to use the correct glob syntax that will match all the files you need. 

For example, if you want to import `src/components/MyComponent.js` and `src/components/includes/MyOtherComponent.js`, use `src/components/**/*.js` (instead of `src/components/*.js`).

> > Note that variables in `Astro.glob()` are not supported. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
> Note that dynamic variables and string interpolation in `Astro.glob()` is not supported. 
```

> For example, if you want to import `src/components/MyComponent.js` and `src/components/includes/MyOtherComponent.js`, use `src/components/**/*.js` (instead of `src/components/*.js`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, use `src/components/**/*.js` to import both of the following files: 
- `src/components/MyComponent.js` 
- `src/components/includes/MyOtherComponent.js`
```

> This is not a bug in Astro. It is due to a limitation of [Vite's `import.meta.glob()` function](https://vitejs.dev/guide/features.html#glob-import) which supports only string literals.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This is not a bug in Astro. It is due to a limitation of [Vite's `import.meta.glob()` function](https://vitejs.dev/guide/features.html#glob-import) which only supports static string literals.
```

---
layout: ~/layouts/MainLayout.astro
title: Troubleshooting
description: Need help? Stuck on something? We've got you covered.
---

> Astro provides several different tools to help you troubleshoot and debug your code easier and faster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Astro provides several different tools to help you troubleshoot and debug your code.
```

description: Need help? Stuck on something? We've got you covered.
---

Astro provides several different tools to help you troubleshoot and debug your code.

## Common Error Messages

Here are some common error messages you might see in the terminal, what they might mean, and what to do about them.

### Transform failed with X error

This message often appears due to a current limitation in Astro requiring your import and export statements to be at the top of your `.astro` file.

**Solution**: Write your imports and exports at the top of your component script.

**Status**: Current limitation; fix is being worked on.

💡 Not sure that this is your problem? Check to see if anyone else has reported [this issue](https://github.com/withastro/astro/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+Transform+failed+with+*+error)!

### Cannot use import statement outside a module

In Astro components, `<script>` tags are hoisted and loaded as [JS modules](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules) by default. If you have included the [`is:inline` directive](/en/reference/directives-reference/#isinline) or any other attribute in your tag, this default behavior is removed.

> **Solution**: If you have added any atributes to your `<script>` tag, you must also add the `type="module"` attribute to be able to use import statements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Solution**: If you have added any attributes to your `<script>` tag, you must also add the `type="module"` attribute to be able to use import statements.
```

**Status**: Expected Astro behavior, as intended.

💡 Not sure that this is your problem? Check to see if anyone else has reported [this issue](https://github.com/withastro/astro/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+Cannot+use+import+statement)!

> ### Unable to render Component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Unable to render component
```

**Solution**: Try to access those objects after rendering (ex: [`useEffect()`](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-reference.html#useeffect) in React or [`onMounted()`](https://vuejs.org/api/composition-api-lifecycle.html#onmounted) in Vue and Svelte)

**Status**: Expected Astro behavior, as intended.

💡 Not sure that this is your problem? Check to see if anyone else has reported [this issue](https://github.com/withastro/astro/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+Unable+to+render+Component)!

### Expected a default export

This error can be thrown when trying to import or render an invalid component, or one that is not working properly. (This particular message occurs because of the way importing a UI component works in Astro.)

**Solution**: Try looking for errors in any component you are importing and rendering, and make sure it's working correctly. Consider opening an Astro starter template from [astro.new](https://astro.new) and troubleshooting just your component in a minimal Astro project. 

**Status**: Expected Astro behavior, as intended.

> ## Common pitfalls

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Common gotchas
```

> ## Common "Gotchas" in Astro

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Common pitfalls
```

### My component is not rendering

First, check to see that you have **imported the component** in your [`.astro` component script](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/#the-component-script) or [`.md` frontmatter](/en/guides/markdown-content/#using-components-in-markdown).

Then check your import statement:

- Is your import linking to the wrong place? (Check your import path.)

- Does your import have the same name as the imported component? (Check your component name and that it [follows the `.astro` syntax](/en/comparing-astro-vs-other-tools/#astro-vs-jsx).)

- Have you included the extension in the import? (Check that your imported file contains an extension. e.g. `.astro`, `.md`, `.jsx`, `.vue`)

> ### My component renders on the page, but is not responding to user interaction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### My component is not interactive
```
Judgement call based on the length of the header for the sidebar. We can put this longer, and accurate text in the description.

> If your component is rendering (see above) but is not interactive, then you may be missing a [`client:*` directive](/en/reference/directives-reference/#client-directives) to hydrate your component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your component is rendering (see above) but is not resonding to user interaction, then you may be missing a [`client:*` directive](/en/reference/directives-reference/#client-directives) to hydrate your component.
```

> By default, a [UI Framework component is not hydrated in the client](/en/core-concepts/framework-components/#hydrating-interactive-components). If no client:* directive is provided, its HTML is rendered onto the page without JavaScript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, a [UI Framework component is not hydrated in the client](/en/core-concepts/framework-components/#hydrating-interactive-components). If no `client:*` directive is provided, its HTML is rendered onto the page without JavaScript.
```

Reviewer: nit: formatting as code

> Note: [Astro components](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/) are HTML-only templating components with no client-side runtime. But, you can use a <script> tag in your Astro component template to send JavaScript to the browser that executes in the global scope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: [Astro components](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/) are HTML-only templating components with no client-side runtime. But, you can use a `<script>` tag in your Astro component template to send JavaScript to the browser that executes in the global scope.
```

💡 Not sure? Check if [you're not the only one](https://github.com/withastro/astro/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+Cannot+use+import+statement) with this issue!

### Unable to render Component

This is usually due to errors in your component, check the corresponding documentation for your component and make sure it's working correctly.

> This can also be due from accessing the `window` or `document` object at render time. By default, Astro will render your component outside of the browser (exept for the `client:only` directive). Try to access those objects after rendering (ex: [`useEffect()`](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-reference.html#useeffect) in react or [`onMounted()`](https://vuejs.org/api/composition-api-lifecycle.html#onmounted) in vue and svelte)

💡 Not sure? Check if [you're not the only one](https://github.com/withastro/astro/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+Unable+to+render+Component) with this issue!

### Export statements must be placed at the top of `.astro` files!

When dealing with Astro components, always check if your `import` and `export` statements are at the top of your component script.

> Unless you're using relatives paths using the `import()` function.

Author: I was mentioning more the common "issue" when people forgot to put their export / import not at the top of the file

I think we should avoid mentioning current issues because it'll be difficult to maintain like said in #440

---
```

#### JS Scripts

Code that is written or imported inside of an Astro `<script>` tag is run in the browser. Any `console.log()` statements or other debug output will be  printed to the console in your browser.

### Debugging Framework Components

> Framework components (like React and Svelte) are unique: They render server-side by default, meaning that `console.log()` debug output will be visible in the terminal. However, they can also be hydrated for the browser, which may cause your debug logs to also appear in the browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Framework components](/en/core-concepts/framework-components/) (like React and Svelte) are unique: They render server-side by default, meaning that `console.log()` debug output will be visible in the terminal. However, they can also be hydrated for the browser, which may cause your debug logs to also appear in the browser.
```

<Debug {{answer: sum(2, 4)}} />
<Debug {answer} />
```

## Need more?

Come and chat with us on [Discord](https://astro.build/chat) and explain your issue in the `#support-threads` channel. We’re always happy to help!

> Visit the current [open Issues in Astro](https://github.com/withastro/astro/issues/) to see if you are encountering a known problem or file a bug. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Visit the current [open Issues in Astro](https://github.com/withastro/astro/issues/) to see if you are encountering a known problem or file a bug report.
```
